On Search Inside Yourself and Meditation.

Both of my parents are Buddhists, so, as you can imagine, mindfulness was a regular topic of conversation at my house growing up. Despite this however, I personally never attempted a daily meditation practice. When I was young the concept of meditation seemed very strange to me, even though I saw my parents, especially my father, doing it constantly. I think this was because I had a very active mind as a child, and the idea of intentionally slowing it down didn’t align with my goals. I wanted to be thinking faster; thinking more. 

Over the last few years however, I have sensed the need for some kind of mindfulness practice in my life. I wouldn’t have always described it in those terms exactly, but it definitely felt like I had too many thoughts and not enough clarity or time for reflection. I read the first chapter of Search Within Yourself a week ago, and I was inspired by the idea of two minute moments of rest. <b>Meditation</b> has always intimidated me, I think partly because it is such a dominating part of my father’s life. He meditates for hours every day in the forest near his house, and when I have joined him in the past I felt in over my head. That’s why I gravitated towards this idea of fun-sized two minute meditative stints, and I’ve been finding opportunity to do them several times throughout the day.  

It wasn’t until today though, that I read chapter two of Search Inside Yourself and attempted a longer, 15 minute meditation. It was an enjoyable experience, at about 5 minutes in I noticed my breathing changing. At first it was awkward and deliberate, but then it relaxed into a slow, back-of-the-nose kind of whisper. I opened and closed my eyes at various points and was satisfied to notice that it didn’t effect my concentration adversely, I just let my eyes blur and fell back into the rhythm of breathing. Overall it was a positive experience, and I definitely left it feeling calmer than I did going in. Circumstances allowing, I plan to make it a regular part of my daily routine.  
